{{Lua/Event|
  arguments = [[Lua/Client/Action|Action]] input, number state|
  return = Return false to block the action.
}}

==Description==

Fired when you use a game action. The 'input' argument is an [[Lua/Client/Action|Action]], while the 'state' argument is a number from 0 to 1 which describes the amount with which the input was triggered (i.e. moving an analog stick to 50% would result in a state of 0.5).

==Examples==

<syntaxhighlight>
Foo = function(args)
	if args.input == Action.FireRight then
		-- This runs every frame that you press the fire button.
		Chat:Print("pow pow", Color(255, 255, 255))
	end
end

Events:Subscribe("LocalPlayerInput", Foo)
</syntaxhighlight>

<syntaxhighlight>
Foo = function(args)
	if args.input == Action.LookRight then
		-- This runs every frame that you rotate your view to the right.
		Chat:Print(tostring(args.state), Color(255, 255, 255))
	end
end

Events:Subscribe("LocalPlayerInput", Foo)
</syntaxhighlight>

====Disabling the grappling hook and parachute====

<syntaxhighlight>
blacklist = {
	Action.FireGrapple,
	Action.ParachuteOpenClose
}

Foo = function(args)
	-- If the blacklist contains this action, block it.
	for index, action in ipairs(blacklist) do
		if action == args.input then
			return false
		end
	end
	
	return true
end

Events:Subscribe("LocalPlayerInput", Foo)
</syntaxhighlight>

Note: There is another way to disable the grappling hook and parachute, see [[Lua/Client/Game/Functions/FireEvent|Game:FireEvent]] for more details.

''Game:FireEvent("ply.grappling.disable")'' will disable the grappling hook as well as removing the crosshair that indicates you are able to grapple.

''Game:FireEvent("ply.parachute.disable")'' will disable the parachute.