== General FAQ ==

===== What version of the game do I need to play the mod? =====

Only the purchased Steam version is supported.

Please see [[Game_Version|this page]] for more information.


===== Are pirated copies supported? =====

No, pirated copies are not supported.


===== Is Steam Family Sharing supported? =====

No, you must own Just Cause 2 on your own account.


===== Does the demo work? =====

No, you can not play the mod with the Just Cause 2 demo.


===== Are there AI / NPCs? =====

No, and they are very unlikely to be added, at least not in the same sense as singleplayer.


===== Will 64 or 32-bit installs work? =====

Yes. It makes no difference.


===== Does this work on PS3/Xbox 360? =====

No, and it won't. Ever.


===== Will JC2-MP affect my single-player game? =====

No, the mod does not affect your game saves in any way.


===== Is JC2-MP free to play? =====

Yes, the mod is completely free to download and play.


===== How do you chat? =====

Press 'T'.


===== Can I use mods while playing JC2-MP? =====

Mods from singleplayer cannot be used in multiplayer. Period. However, in some cases, similar functionality can be scripted using the [[Lua|Lua API]].


===== How do I open the map? =====

Press F1.


===== How do I hide the chat? =====

Press F3.


===== How often do vehicles respawn? =====

By default, vehicles respawn after 45 seconds of unuse. If a vehicle explodes, it will respawn within 8 seconds. These can be changed in the server config.

It is also worth noting that vehicles can only be damaged when there's a player driving them.


===== Can I access the black market? =====

No. The black market from singleplayer will not be in the mod. Its functionality will be scriptable using Lua.

In fact, [https://github.com/Philpax/jc2mp-buymenu the buy menu script] is a perfect example of a black market replacement.


===== Is the JC2-MP team accepting donations? =====

Yes, we are currently accepting donations to cover hosting costs. [http://www.jc-mp.com/donate/ You can donate here.]


== Server Hosting FAQ ==

===== Can LAN-only servers be hosted? =====

Yes, servers can be hosted on a LAN network. Unless your server is exposed to the internet, then it is already LAN-only.

Please note that the LAN tab in the server browser in-game is currently not working properly and you will need to use quick connect.


===== How do servers handle DLC? =====

It is up to server owners themselves whether to require players to own DLC or not.


===== Which resources does the server need? =====

Please see [[Server/Requirements|this page]] for more information.


===== What are "highlighted servers"? =====

Highlighted servers are servers that are on the top of the server list as chosen by the jcmp staff. For more information, please see the [http://www.jc-mp.com/forums/index.php/topic,4445.0.html Highlighted Server Requests] forum topic.